
 台北市立松山高中 八十八學年度第一學期第二次期中考 高三英文科試題

第一部分: 選擇題 請在答案卡上作答
I. Cloze Test: 
Part A: Ivy League 25% 
    
  (A)  To  really   understand   culture
shock, it is best  that  one  personally
--1-- it.   Most  people  in  Taiwan
probably   have   little   first   -hand
knowledge  of --2--  it feels  to be
shocked by a foreign culture. One of the
first  shocks  that  a  Western  visitor
experiences    in   Taipei   is   purely
--3--:   The   city   is   amazingly
crowded.  Taipei  has the rush of crowds
and  traffic.  At night, the city  glows
with enough neon to rival Las Vegas. All
this  can  --4--  a Westerner  feeling
overwhelmed.
1.(a) experience     (b) experiences     (c) experienced    (d) experiencing
2.(a) what          (b) which          (c) why          (d) how
3.(a) spiritual       (b) physical        (c) cultural        (d) national
4.(a) make         (b) cause           (c) let            (d) leave

  (B) Tea has always  been closely  tied
to  Chinese  culture.   There  are  many
traditions associated with tea drinking.
--5--  idea has been  developed  and
--5--  argument  has  been  resolved
--6--  a cup  of tea at traditional
teahouses.  But today tea is --7--  a
leisure  activity  of generations  past.
Where have the young tea drinkers  gone?
A good guess is the neighborhood  coffee
shop. Coffee consumption is beginning to
--8-- in Taiwan, tied closely to the
changing habits of Chinese youth. Coffee
drinking  is regarded  as --9--  in a
youth culture  searching  for a distinct
--10--.
5.(a) many           (b) much          (c) many a           (d) much a
6.(a) with            (b) at             (c) for              (d) over
7.(a) viewed          (b) thought of      (c) looked upon       (d) considered
8.(a) break down      (b) set out         (c) take off           (d) make up
9.(a) cutting edge   (b) having the blues   (c) settling down     (d) coming a long way
10.(a) identify         (b) identity       (c) identification       (d) identical

  (C) It is estimated that tattooing has
existed  for  more  than  12,000  years.
Tattoos   have   been  used  by  various
cultures  to  symbolically  communicate,
--11--  social  status, and to engage
in religious and ceremonial rites, among
other  things.  In  Japan, for  example,
tattoos --12-- criminals, before they
eventually  grew  into  an esthetic  art
form.  The earliest  tattoos in recorded
history  can --13--  Egypt during  the
construction  of the  pyramids.  In  the
late 1,700s, tattooing began to catch on
in   the   West,  --14--   it   would
eventually   increase   in   popularity.
--15--, tattoos were a pursuit only of
the  upper  classes  who,  following   a
contemporary  fad, got small tattoos  on
covered parts of the body.  Then, --16--
the  invention  of the  electric  tattoo
machine  in 1891, everyone  was able  to
obtain  a reasonably  priced and readily
available tattoo.
  Mass availability  led to a --17--  in
the high-class  demand  for tattoos, and
they became a statement not of the upper
classes but of the --18-- ones.
11.(a) mark           (b) marking         (c) marked          (d) to mark
12.(a) first used to mark                   (b) were first used to marking                     
  (c) first used to marking            (d) were first used to mark
13.(a) keep in touch with  (b) be traced to   (c) make up for     (d) migrate to 
14.(a) when            (b) which        (c) where          (d) what
15.(a) Besides          (b) At first       (c) No wonder      (d) However
16.(a) with             (b) at           (c) for             (d) over
17.(a) increase          (b) mourning     (c) decline         (d) production
18.(a) higher           (b) middle        (c) lower          (d) smaller     

  (D) E-mail(electronic-mail) as  a form
of private  communication  has  recently
created  a new kind of writing  with new
rules.    Traditional   letters   cannot
--19--  with  each  other, but  with
e-mail it is possible  to include  parts
of the  original  letter  in the  reply.
Because   of  the  special  feature,  an
e-mail letter can --20--  be written
quickly. So is it necessary to include a
greeting  and a farewell? Is it rude  to
--21--? By using the --22-- on the
keyboard, the writer  can  --23--  new
messages.  For  example, to emphasize  a
word,  or  to  indicate   the   writer's
--24--, such  as  or.  In  this  way,
e-mail departs from the norm for writing
letters, such as standard s pellings and
grammar.   --25--,  an  e-mail  writer
enjoys  a  great  deal  of  freedom   in
communicating  with anyone  in any place
of the world at any time.
19.(a) insert        (b) instill        (c) interact        (d) inspire
20.(a) differently    (b) consequently  (c) unlikely        (d) hardly
21.(a) let them go  (b) leave them behind   (c) leave them out   (d) let them down
22.(a) click         (b) mouse       (c) modems        (d) symbols
23.(a) carry         (b) transfer      (c) convey         (d) exchange
24.(a) purpose       (b) face         (c) trick           (d) attitude
25.(a) For one thing   (b) By the way   (c) By contrast     (d) As a result

Part B: Textbook 48%

  (A) In  many  families,  parents  feel
that children should --26-- major life
decisions  by themselves.  A parent  may
try to influence a child to --27--  a
particular  profession  but the child is
free to choose another career. Sometimes
children  do --28--  the  opposite  of
what their parents  wish to assert their
independence.  A  son  may  deliberately
decide   --29--   into   his   father's
business  because  he fears that he will
lose   his  autonomy   in  his  father's
workplace.  The independence  --30 --
parents  d oes not suggest  that parents
and  children  do not love  each  other.
Strong love between parents and children
is universal  and --31--  no exception
in the American family.  Coexisting with
such love in the American  family --32--
cultural  values  of  self-reliance  and
independence.
26.(a) take            (b) do               (c) make          (d) choose
27.(a) run into         (b) follow on         (c)engage in        (d) enter to 
28.(a) precise          (b) exactly           (c) merely         (d) complete
29.(a) not going        (b) to not go          (c) not go         (d) not to go
30.(a) from            (b) off              (c) to             (d) on
31.(a) it has           (b) this is            (c) there has       (d) such is
32.(a) is              (b) are              (c) has been        (d) is to be


  (B) Each old man knew  that  the other
two had seen the shilling, but each kept
quiet about it --33--  the finding his
own  secret.   Each  knew  that  it  was
impossible  for him to go down  the iron
ladder   to  the   deck,  pick   up  the
shilling,  and  get  back  to  the  pier
without being seen. --34-- there was a
man  wearing  a round  white  cap  doing
something  in the  cabin  of the  yacht.
--35--  his  cap  appeared  through  the
doorway  and there  was the noise of the
plates --36--  or something.  And the
shilling  was  within  two  feet  of the
doorway.   Besides,  the  old  men  were
--37--  climb  down  the la dder  and
climb back up again. --38--, each knew
that  even if there  were nobody  in the
cabin, and even if he could  climb  down
the ladder, the others would prevent him
from getting the shilling. Yet, --39--
the attraction  of that shining shilling
that the three  of them stared  --40--
painfully  beating hearts and feverishly
working  brains  at objects  within  two
feet of it.
33.(a) hoping in keeping                (b) in the hope to keep           
  (c) hoping that he could keep           (d) hoping himself to keep
34.(a) Though        (b) For           (c) Whether            (d) Unless
35.(a) Every three moment or so          (b) Every third minutes or so 
   (c)About every three minutes          (d) About every third moments
36.(a) to be washed   (b) been washing    (c) being washed   (d) to wash
37.(a) so old not to     (b) old enough to     (c) too old to    (d) so old that they could
38.(a) Therefore       (b) Moreover     (c) Otherwise       (d) Accordingly  
39.(a) such was        (b) so was       (c) it was           (d) this was
40.(a) in              (b) with         (c) at              (d) for

  (C) But Nobel's main concern was never
with making  money  or even with  making
scientific discoveries. --41--, he was
always searching  for a meaning to life,
and  from  his youth  --42-- literature
and philosophy. Perhaps because he could
not find ordinary  human  love-he  never
married-he  --43--  deeply  about  the
whole of mankind. He was always generous
to  the  poor: " I'd  take  care  of the
stomachs  of  the  living  --44--  the
glory  of the dead in the form  of stone
memorial," he once  said.  His  greatest
wish, however, --45--  an end to wars,
and thus peace  between  nations, and he
spent  much time and money  working  for
this cause --46--  his death  in Italy
in 1896.  His famous  will, --47--  he
left money  to provide  prizes  --48--
outstanding  work, is a memorial  to his
interests  and  ideals.  And so, the man
who felt he should --49--  at birth is
remembered  and respected long after his
death.
41.(a) Seldom happy     (b) Seldom be happy      (c) Seldom been happy
   (d) Seldom to be happy
42.(a) had a serious interest in            (b) took serious interests at
   (c) had taken a serious interest in       (d) had taken serious interests at 
43.(a) came caring    (b) came to care   (c) came to caring   (d) came care
44.(a) less than       (b) other than     (c) more than       (d) rather than   
45.(a) was seeing     (b) was to see     (c) was seen        (d) had to see
46.(a) when         (b) until          (c) though          (d) after  
47.(a) which         (b) in which      (c) for which        (d) what
48.(a) with          (b) of            (c) to              (d) for
49.(a) die           (b) be dead        (c) have died        (d) have been dying


II. Reading Comprehension  12%     
  (A) A department of Health, Education,
and  Welfare  study  found  that, if the
total cost of America's driver education
programs     is    compared    to    the
approximately  60,000 annual  deaths  on
the nation's  highways, this approach to
good driving  "saves" lives at a cost of
about  $88,000 per life.  Other  studies
have  indicated  that  there  is  little
correlation between whether a person has
taken  a  driver  education  course  and
later safe driving behavior(as  measured
by  arrests, involvement  in  accidents,
and the like) .  The  one variable  that
does seem most important  is good or bad
driving  habits by members of a person's
family(father,  mother,  husband,  wife,
sister, brother, and so on). In contrast
to driver education, the introduction of
seat belts costs about $87 per life, and
studies show that they effectively  save
lives    in    automobile     accidents.
Furthermore, some studies  suggest  that
10,000 or more lives  may be saved  each
year as a result  of lowering  the speed
limit in order to conserve  energy.  The
major cost invol ved is new speed  limit
signs.   In   summary,  driver-education
courses  are  designed   to  change  the
habits  of  individual  drivers, whereas
seat belts and lower  speed  limits  are
designed  to change the highway  context
for all motorists, including drivers and
passengers alike.

50. The subject in this passage is 
(a) the value of seat belts and lower speed limits
(b) that driver education saves lives
(c) the cost of saving lives on the road
(d) family driving habits
51. This passage contrasts
(a)  driving habits of husbands and wives
(b) cost of driver education with number of lives saved
(c) types of safety features in cars
(d) differing speed limits for different roads
52. In this passage the author shows bias against
(a) driver-education courses   
(b) arresting driving violators
(c) saving lives through driver training    
(d) Health, Education, and Welfare studies

  (B)  Kathy   Levin   has  been   doing
volunteer  work for many  years.  One of
her most unusual and successful projects
was to set up a poetry -writing workshop
in a Baltimore, Maryland  nursing  home.
Kathy noticed  that when elderly  people
talked, their words and bodies seemed to
display  a rhythm.  The old people  were
natural  poets,  she  felt.   She  began
teaching  them how to put their thoughts
into  lines  of  poetry.  Through  their
poems, the elderly  people revealed  how
sensitive and brilliant they were. Kathy
believes   that  young  people   in  our
society  underestimate  the intelligence
and beauty of elderly people. She wanted
to  help  young   people   become   more
knowledgeable about the abilities of the
elderly.  So she launched  a program  in
Baltimore called "Magic Me." Its purpose
is   to  attract   students   to  become
volunteers    in   nursing   homes   and
hospitals.   Kathy   calls  the  program
"Magic  Me"  because   she  hopes  young
people  will see that they  have a magic
ability to change other people's  lives.
Kathy  says  she has learned  much  more
from  her poetry  students  than she has
taught   them.   She  has  uncovered   a
"treasure"  through  her volunteer  work
that  she  hopes   other   people   will
discover as well.
  53. Kathy Levin's poetry-writing workshop is a result of
(a) her experience with young people
(b) her belief in the lack of intelligence of the elderly.
(c) her desire to get the elderly to do volunteer work.
(d) her observations of the poetic speech and movements of the elderly.
  54. Which of the following statements is not true?
(a) The poems written in Kathy's program reveal how brilliant young people are.
(b) Kathy Levin feels that society does not appreciate the elderly enough.
(c) Kathy Levin feels she has learned more from her students than they from her.
(d) The students receive no money for their work.
  55. The program is called "Magic Me" because 
(a) it is based upon magic tricks
(b) the elderly have the magical ability to care for others.
(c) magicians are used as part of the program.
(d) Kathy believes young people can inspire the elderly.

第二部分: 非選擇題 請在答案紙上作答

III. Vocabulary  15%
1. I 've had my eyes tested and the
optician says my v----n is perfect.
2. A p----e speaker has the power to
influence others into believing or doing
  what he wishes.  
3. Her silence was i----e of her unwillingness to accept your invitation.
4. We must make a----e for his youth.  In other words, his action is excusable
  because he is still young.
5. The singer was enthusiastically
applauded because her performance was e----t.
6. These photos a----n old memories of my high school days.
7. The film actress's divorce received wide p----y through newspapers.
8. In c----t to your belief that we will fail, I am confident that we will succeed.
9. Because of his breaking the rules, he has been s----d from the team.
10. Parents should try to i----l a sense of responsibility into their children.
11. It took him a few minutes to come to c----s after he fainted.
12. In 1911, Marie Curie from France won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for her 
  d----y of radium.
13. A rover lives a v----t life.  He wanders from one place to another without a
   permanent residence.
14. Their knowledge and experience have c----d largely to the progress of the
   work.
15. This picture shows four g----s-great grandmother, grandmother, mother
   and baby.

                          作文試題卷   ( 100% )


     Edison, the greatest inventor in the 20th century, brought us from darkness to light.  He 
once described his early success with light.  "We built the lamp and turned on the current.  It 
lit up.  Then we sat down and looked at that lamp.  We wanted to see how long it would burn.  
The longer it burned the more fascinated we were.  It lasted about forty-five hours, and then I 
said, 'If it will burn that number of hours now, I know I can make it burn a hundred.'"

憑著不斷的實驗，及不怕失敗的精神，愛迪生發明了電燈改造二十世紀的文明，造福全
人類。 請參考以上的短文，抒發感想。 文約三百字。 
…

